Described as being “…fiendishly precise…” (_pitchfork.com_), Canadian Drummer Nico Dann is sought-after internationally as a multi-faceted musician. As well as composing-for and leading his own ensembles, Nico has performed with a “who’s-who” of Canadian Jazz including Juno-Award winners Allison Au and Roberto Occhipinti, Michael Davidson, Dan Fortin (of Juno-Nominated _Myriad Three)_, Andrew Downing, Reg Schwager and Christine Jensen.

Dann’s past projects include touring with chart-topping indie luminary _tUnE-yArDs_ (4AD), ex Montreal Indie-Rock Band _Sister Suvi_, and Toronto’s dream-pop group _Bernice_, led by Nico’s sister Robin Dann. Nico’s ever-expanding discography as a sideman includes dates with the Tania Gill Quartet, Karl Silveira, Rebecca Hennessy’s _FOG, _ _The Jessica Stuart Few_, Toronto indie-luminary _Bernice_, NYC’s _Jackson Hardakker, Angela Morris \_and_ Aaron Shragge*, Berlin-based Canadian Jon Lindhorst, Kansas City-based banjo songster \_Alex Mallet*, and ex-NYC now LA-based guitar virtuoso Lily Maase’s _The Suite Unraveling. _ Throughout his career, Nico has toured the US and Europe, notably performing at festivals such as the _North Sea Jazz Festival_, Montreal’s _Off Jazz Festival_, Toronto’s _TD Jazz Festival, the Ottawa Jazz Festival, POP Montreal_, _South by Southwest_ and _Glastonbury._

As well as leading his own ensembles Nico is a permanent member of projects led by various of his peers including Tania Gill, Trevor Hogg, Karl Silveira and Rebecca Hennessy. From 2015 to 2018 - with Michael Davidson (vibraphone) & Jim Sexton (bass) - Nico held down a weekly gig exploring the oeuvre of Thelonious Monk at various venues across Toronto, giving him a chance to hone his knowledge and love for Monk’s unique voice. With his wife, soprano Ilana Zarankin, Nico co-leads Jazz/Classical/Folk ensemble _Shepherds Heard_ and Indie-folk band _Elephant Ear. \_Zarankin and Dann were also co-curators of Toronto’s \_dérangé_, a music series devoted to bringing together local and touring contemporary classical, jazz, folk and pop music acts.

Nico made his Classical debut with father violist Steven Dann and world-renowned bassist Joel Quarrington at the National Arts Centre in 2008 and had an opportunity to revisit this repertoire with his father in 2016 as part the Women’s Musical Club of Toronto Music Series. This concert included a commission for Nico’s siblings and wife as well entitled _Dannthology_.\_ \_Nico has studied privately with many renowned drummers and musicians including Jim Black, Jim Blackley, Rémi Bolduc, Dave Douglas, Antonio Hart, Michel Lambert, Chris McCann, Rakalam Bob Moses, Michael Mossman, Dave Patel, Jeb Patton, John Riley, and Nasheet Waits.

A dedicated educator, Dann has held numerous positions as a teaching artist, and has given master classes and clinics both in Canada and the US. Nico was on faculty as a private music instructor at Bayview Glen School from 2016 to 2023 and maintains a private studio in Toronto.

Nico has a BMus and an MA in Jazz from Montreal’s McGill University and CUNY Queens College in NYC, respectively. Nico has attended the Banff International Workshop on Jazz and Creative Music as well as an independent residency at the Banff Centre. Nico has been supported by the Ontario Arts Council.
